pansy the chimp is about to show that
although she can't talk her
understanding of language is such that
she too understands the concept of trade
and value well we're gonna put pansy in
a situation where there's going to be a
supply of foods as I'm getting ready
right now and in order to get those
things she's gonna have to exchange a
LexA graham token with me so what we do
is set up this board with one of each of
these LexA Grahams
so that pansy has the opportunity to
come over here and choose one and then
take them to Mike to get the food the
food choices range from pansies favorite
oranges and bananas down to less
interesting items like bread and carrots
this test is at the cutting edge of
research into chimp intelligence if
pansy understands that each token can
buy her a particular food item she
should choose to buy her favorite
oranges and bananas first this will
demonstrate she understands the concept
of currency and value
[Music]
that's right
once pansy has eaten all her favorite
foods
she should realize that there is no
point in offering the same token again
[Music]
by the end pansy has successfully bought
and eaten her preferred foods the only
items left are the ones that she does
not particularly value pansies
astonishing grasp of the concept of
trade and value have opened the door to
an intriguing possibility do chimpanzees
in general share and trade amongst
themselves back at twycross zoo catcher
LaBelle has spotted proof that they do a
female chimp samantha is observed giving
a mango to her friend jolly for catcher
this small gesture may have far-reaching
implications about chimp intelligence if
jim's
chair they have a strategy or theirs ago
so they share something to basically get
some benefit afterwards to get something
in return
behind this simple gesture lies a
strategy of investment for reaping
future benefits
[Music]
you